# Machine Learning Models with R
In the past few years, the news has been Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. A lot of innovative ideas have popped up on the use of Machine Learning algorithms in science, medicine, and every field possible! Through this project, I created (worked in a team) several *Machine Learning models* in R and *automated the process of R Markdown report generation*.  I have also extensively applied the use of GitHub for collaboration and version control of code. It was an amazing tool to keep track of all the changes.  

As part of the project, we used [Diabates Health Indicators Data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/alexteboul/diabetes-health-indicators-dataset) to predict the probability of diabetes occurrence based on **health & lifestyle, socioeconomic status, and demographics (age and sex)** of an individual. Diabetes occurrence, a binary variable, was modeled using the following methods: 
  + Forward Selection Logistic Regression
  + Backward Selection Logistic Regression
  + Basic Logistic Regression
  + LASSO Method  
  + Classification Tree Based Method
  + Random Forest Method  
  + Partial Least Squares Method
  + Naive Bayes Method

Since the data set was not balanced, logloss was used as the metric for evaluating different models. The data set was partitioned into a train data set and a test set for evaluating model performance. Once trained, all models were tested on the test data set and the model with the least logloss value was chosen as the final best model.  

For a future similar project, I would like to spend more time on learning the tuning parameters for different models, understanding them has been a bit difficult for me. In the future as a grad student at NC State, I will pursue courses that would delve deeper into machine learning algorithms. I think this would be of great help for future professional life. 

This project has been a great learning experience for me. I got to use GitHub like in the real world. To work on the project, I created a branch from the main GitHub branch and pushed my updates frequently. Machine learning is an exciting field, and I will delve deeper.

To view the project, please check out my GitHub pages site at : <https://saratbantupalli.github.io/ST558_Project-2/>  

The project repo can be reached at: <https://github.com/saratbantupalli/ST558_Project-2>


 
